[Music]
hi there
cellphones certainly make our lives
easier but they can also be dangerous
and I'm not talking about too much
screen time sometimes phones explode
literally let's find out why this
happens and what to do to prevent it let
me clear up one thing before we get into
the details the phone doesn't explode
the battery does and this usually
happens with a lithium-ion battery which
most modern gadgets are equipped with
since 2016 cases of batteries igniting
have significantly increased that's why
as of this year it's forbidden to store
gadgets with these batteries in the
cargo of an aircraft in some cases the
phone's not only explode but also
ignites well melt and even boil
scientists from Canada were able to look
inside the phone and find out how it
works we'll get into a bit of physics
and chemistry now but it's important to
understand and I'll keep it simple
because I must the battery has a
positive electrode charge a lithium
anode it collides with the electrolyte
the substance that transfers electric
current the reaction of these two
elements causes the battery to heat up
then the lithium anodes evil brother a
negative electrode or cathode joins the
party at this point it gets hot the
battery heats up to 392 degrees
Fahrenheit and at this temperature the
electrolyte begins to decompose into
flammable substances oxygen carbon
dioxide and other gases the battery
can't withstand the load and just swells
and this is not swell often the party
ends here but sometimes the battery
ignites the outcome is not very pleasant
especially if the phone is in your
pocket many people have said that their
battery literally boiled like real acid
now all lithium-ion is equipped with
controllers sensors and charge balancers
to reduce the risk of fire but sometimes
this doesn't help so what exactly
provokes this disaster inside the phone
in fact there are several reasons
one the electrodes are different in each
battery and have different charging
speeds the electric current that gets
transferred to your phone during
charging can simply be too much for your
battery to handle
nothing will happen after one charge but
if you give your gadget more energy than
it can take to often sooner or later
it'll be ruined - the chip that monitors
the charge level on the phone can fail
as well this small chip filters the
charge of the current so that your phone
doesn't eat anything extra if the charge
is exceeded then the chip simply turns
it off but if this chip is broken your
phone will come to an end very quickly 3
the battery in the phone can be very
easily damaged if you drop your phone or
accidentally step on it if it's damaged
the correct order of operation of the
electrodes will be violated destroying
the battery and provoking an explosion
remember when cellphones were thicker
and heavier every year developers try to
make phone sleeker and easier to use but
the thin and fragile designs make the
phones more vulnerable in the event of a
fall
the septum of the electrodes could be
damaged resulting in a short-circuit
that will instantly leave the phone to
overheat and ignite 4 we can't know
under what conditions the battery of our
phone was created it could have been
scratched during assembly disrupting the
technology or accidentally introducing
small metal particles into it even minor
damage can lead to breakage production
defects are rare but nobody is
completely safe from them the
probability that your phone will explode
is small but it's there luckily there
are some simple and very reliable ways
to avoid it one if you notice that the
phone has become hot while charging then
it's better to unplug the cable and
allow the phone to cool don't cover it
with anything until the heat accumulated
in the phone reduces
to build by cheap or unreliable chargers
the phone manufacturers create chargers
that perfectly match the battery in your
phone yes it'll cost a bit more but
it'll be less than the cost of a new
phone
the same goes for the battery itself
only have it replaced by certified
personnel the companies whose phones
exploded turned out to be innocent in
most cases because the phone users had
had the batteries changed and unreliable
establishments incompetent employees
could accidentally damage the battery or
replace it with a cheap and poor quality
one three many people like to fall
asleep with a phone and put it under
their pillow while charging hmm it'd be
better to charge the phone in an open
space and it's best not to charge the
phone overnight at all just do it during
the day when you can pay attention to it
[Music]
for don't leave your phone charging in
hot places the Sun can raise the
temperature of the battery and it won't
lead to anything good 5 if you notice
the battery of your phone is running out
quickly then bring it to an authorized
service center you'll most likely need
to replace it 6 don't carry your phone
in your back pocket you might forget
about it and accidentally sit down which
will lead to the deformation of the
battery you should be careful not only
with the battery of the phone but also
with the power bank in 2016 at the
airport in Istanbul a security officer
forbade one passenger from bringing a
power bank onto the plane the passenger
got angry and threw the device to the
floor resulting in a small explosion and
smoke hmm point made so if you're ever
angry and want to take it out on your
device think twice
batteries don't only explode in phones
many cases have been recorded of laptops
toasters hoverboards and electric
vehicles igniting but honestly I don't
want to end the video on such a bleak
note so here's some advice on how to
make your phone's battery last longer
one once charged pull out the cable
continuing to charge a full battery will
keep it under stress it's like with
muscles after an intense workout they
should rest and after a year of such
excessive training the battery capacity
will noticeably decrease and the phone
will run out of battery faster also the
developers advise against recharging a
phone to 100% to charge the phone as
often as needed but just a little bit if
you constantly charge it to 100% and use
the gadget until it's completely out of
battery then the battery will be able to
handle about 500 to 700 charge cycles if
you let it drop to about 50% and then
charge it a little and let it drop again
your battery will be able to handle
1,500 recharge cycles the ideal level is
to always keep the phone between 40 and
80 percent 3 watch the temperature not
only can the sun's rays harm the battery
but also frost carrying your phone in
the outside pocket of your jacket in
winter is a bad idea
4 it's recommended that you completely
drain the battery down to zero and then
fully recharge it once a month this
training will help calibrate the
mechanisms that are responsible for the
correct display of the charge level 5
try to replace the battery in any of
your devices at least once every 2 or 3
years and the last question which
probably worries a lot of people is it
okay to leave the charger in the outlet
when you're not charging the phone
experts say that there's no risk because
during the charging process the phone
completely controls the power supply and
turns it off when you remove the
charging cable from your gadget but if
you have a poor quality charger
it's best not to risk it and pull it out
of the socket
especially if you'll be gone for a long
time I hope you've got a charge out of
that hey if you learn something new
today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life